Preliminaries & dependencies

- root directory of experiments needs to be updated in : analyze_resultswithUQ.py, analyze_reults_without_wandb.py, compute_uncertainty_measures_without_wandb.py
- conda-env update -f environment.yaml
- conda activate llm_semantic_uncertainty
- Our experiments has the capability to use GPT models from the OpenAI API. 
  Please set the environment variable OPENAI_API_KEY to your OpenAI API key in order to use these models. 
  Note that OpenAI charges a cost per input token and per generated token. 
  Costs for reproducing our results vary depending on experiment configuration, but, without any guarantee, should lie somewhere between 5 and 30 USD per run.


experiments:
1) Update model and dataset via arg parser : 
     args.dataset="squad"  #trivia, squad, bioasq, nq, svamp
     args.model_name="falcon-rw-1b" #"Llama-3.2-1b" #"Llama-2 7b" or for command line runs as below 



2) run generate_answers.py for the selected model and dataset combination. This will create experiement files paired with wandb file structure. 
3) run compute_uncertainty_measures_without_wandb.py on the created file.
4) run analyze_results_withpout_wandb.py on the created file.
5) the results will be json dumped in "analysis" folder 
6) all metrics shown in the paper could be obtained from the analysis_result.json


Note:
- flexibility is provided to choose different models in llama and mistral family.
- Our experiments rely on Weights & Biases (wandb) to log and save individual runs. 
  While wandb will be installed automatically with the above conda script, you may need to log in with your wandb API key upon initial execution.
- the code provided handles loading from locally saved files for ease

Hardware Dependencies

Generally speaking, our experiments require medium computer hardware which is suited for usage with large language models (LLMs).
Requirements regarding the system's CPU and RAM size are relatively low: any reasonably modern system should suffice, e.g. a system with an Intel 10th generation CPU and 16 GB of system memory or better.

More importantly, all our experiments make use of one or more Graphics Processor Units (GPUs) to speed up LLM inference. Without a GPU, it is not feasible to reproduce our results in a reasonable amount of time. The particular GPU necessary depends on the choice of LLM: LLMs with more parameters require GPUs with more memory. 
For our models we use 2X 1080Ti NVIDIA GPUs. Smaller 1B models are run by default and 7B models are -int4 bit precision.
But the code is generalized to run larger models as well - but a higher harder requirement might have to satisfied. 

One can reduce the precision to float16 or int8 to reduce memory requirements without significantly affecting model predictions and their accuracy. 
We use float16 for 70B models by default, and int8 mode can be enabled for any model by suffixing the model name with -int8.


Software Dependencies

Our code relies on Python 3.11 with PyTorch 2.1.
Our systems run the Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS (GNU/Linux 5.15.0-89-generic x86_64) operating system.